* Coding (Logical and Maintainable) 
    * LP: Bias for Action & Ownership	
    * For an SDE1, ownership is focused on accepting responsibility for actions and outcomes. Successful candidates should takes initiative and be persistent/tenacious in everything they do. He/she will also: quickly identify if more information is needed before taking action, can request that info and then move forward; analyze facts quickly; be able to evaluate data and information effectively; use own initiative to drive forward. While assessment of technical skills will happen throughout the entire interview loop, this interviewer's job is to ensure that he/she receives a large enough chunk of code to assess that the candidate: writes code that is syntactically correct and does what it is intended to do; builds maintainable and readable code; writes idiomatic code; puts basic error handling and testing is in place.
* Coding (Data Structures and Algorithms) (CS Fundamentals)	
    * This interviewer will probe into a candidate's general CS fundamentals and ability to work effectively through data structures and algorithms sometimes, sometimes starting with intentionally vague scenarios designed to observe a candidate's ability to work through a problem. This interviewer will ensure that the candidate knows how to: apply various data structures & algorithms' make good trade-offs; can combine data structures to solve complex use cases (that scale with level).
* Coding (Problem Solving) 
    * LP: Dive Deep, Learn and be Curious	The interviewer should begin with high level coding/technical question/problems, assessing for the candidate’s ability to thinking through problems, identify alternatives, and weigh different options; see potential roadblocks and challenges with solutions.
* Adaptability & Quick Learning; 
    * Growth Potential LP Learn and be Curious, invent and simplify	The interviewer should be able to answer whether or not the candidate will be able to get to an SDE2 in 2-3 years, probing for a candidate's ability to demonstrate he/she is: self-motivated to learn themselves rather than needing to be taught; open to new ideas and ways of getting things done; able to seek and take feedback; able to take learnings from mistakes to better oneself; curious and has a passion to learn; passionate about keeping updated with new technologies; able to grasp new concepts quickly; able to come up to speed in a new area quickly and comprehensively.
* Coding (Design) 
    * LP: Bias for Action, Disagree and Commit	A college SDE1 will not have the advanced design skills of an SDE2 or an SDE3 but testing for basic OO concepts and basic design should occur during the interview loop. How adaptable and willing to learn a candidate is should give an indication of his/her ability to pick up concepts at Amazon. Strong design skills could potentially compensate for weaknesses in other areas, if you believe those skills can be taught (i.e. could be a reason to screen in).